Connections (#25336)
docker/docker.github.io: content/manuals/enterprise/security/oidc-connections/create-manage.md

tags: [admin]
weight: 10
---

{{< summary-bar feature_name="OIDC connections" >}}

Organization owners and editors can create new OIDC connections or manage existing ones from **OIDC connections** in Docker Home. Establishing an OIDC connection occurs in two phases. First, you create the OIDC connection in Docker Home, then you configure your GitHub Actions workflow YAML file. OIDC connections only supports GitHub as a trusted third party.

## Connect OIDC connections to GitHub Actions

### Step 1: Create the OIDC connection

1. Sign in to [Docker Home](https://app.docker.com/), select your organization, then go to **Identity & auth**.
1. Select **OIDC connections**.
1. Select **Create OIDC connection** and fill in the OIDC connection form.
   - You must provide rulesets and subject claims. Other values are optional.
   - To learn about rulesets, subject claims, and resources, see [OIDC connections rulesets and subject claims](/manuals/enterprise/security/oidc-connections/rulesets-claims.md).
1. Select **Create connection**.
1. Copy your OIDC connection ID.

### Step 2: Define GitHub Actions workflow

> 1. Add a top-level `permissions` key that requests a GitHub OIDC ID token:

Reviewer: thought: It might be worth pushing in the direction of a "job-level" permission. Security rules will often complain if permissions are described too high in the context.

This would also need to be reflected below in the job.

   ```yaml
   permissions:
     id-token: write
   ```

1. Define a job that triggers the OIDC exchange. Update `connection_id` with the connection ID you copied from Docker:

   ```yaml
   jobs:
     login:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: OIDC connections
           id: docker_oidc

>            uses: docker/oidc-action@v0

Reviewer: issue: Change to v1

           with:
             connection_id: <YOUR_CONNECTION_ID>
   ```

1. Add a step that signs into Docker with an access token once the ID token passes authentication:

   ```yaml
   - name: Sign in to Docker Hub

>      uses: docker/login-action@{{% param "login_action_version" %}}

Reviewer: question: Where does this `login_action_version` come from?

Author: tbh I'm not sure, I believe this came from the original draft from last year. What do you suggest I swap it out with? @dotjoshrc

---
title: Create and manage OIDC connections
linkTitle: Create and manage connections
description: Create, update, and delete OIDC connections for your organization
keywords: oidc connections, create oidc connection, manage oidc connection, openid connect, identity provider, enterprise security, admin
tags: [admin]
weight: 10
---

{{< summary-bar feature_name="OIDC connections" >}}

Organization owners and editors can create new OIDC connections or manage existing ones from **OIDC connections** in Docker Home. Establishing an OIDC connection occurs in two phases. First, you create the OIDC connection in Docker Home, then you configure your GitHub Actions workflow YAML file.

> [!NOTE]

> > OIDC connections supports GitHub as a trusted third party.

Reviewer 2: Is this needed as a note? alternatively, if you want the note it'd be stronger as 'OIDC connections only/currently only supports GitHub as a trusted third party.'

## Connect OIDC connections to GitHub Actions

### Step 1: Create the OIDC connection

1. Sign in to [Docker Home](https://app.docker.com/), select your organization, then go to **Identity & auth**.
1. Select **OIDC connections**.

> 1. Select **Create OIDC connection** to go to the creation page. Fill in the OIDC connection form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Create OIDC connection** and fill in the OIDC connection form.
```
Picky nit

   - You must provide rulesets and subject claims. Other values are optional.
   - To learn about rulesets, subject claims, and resources, see [OIDC connections rulesets and subject claims](/manuals/enterprise/security/oidc-connections/rulesets-claims.md).
1. Select **Create connection**.
1. Copy your OIDC connection ID.

### Step 2: Define GitHub Actions workflow

1. Add a top-level `permissions` key that requests a GitHub OIDC ID token:

   ```yaml
   permissions:
     id-token: write
   ```

1. Define a job that triggers the OIDC exchange. Update `connection_id` with the connection ID you copied from Docker:

   ```yaml
   jobs:
     login:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: OIDC connections
           id: docker_oidc
           uses: docker/oidc-action@v0
           with:
             connection_id: <YOUR_CONNECTION_ID>
   ```

> 1. Add a step that signs into Docker with an access token once ID token passes authentication:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add a step that signs into Docker with an access token once the ID token passes authentication:
```

   ```yaml

>    - name: Login to Docker Hub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - name: Sign in to Docker Hub
```

>        username: <YOUR_ORGANIZATION_NAME>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       username: <DOCKER_ORGANIZATION_NAME>
```

perhaps it's obvious to the reader, but it seems potentially worth disambiguating to the reader that we are not talking about a GitHub org name here.

     uses: docker/login-action@{{% param "login_action_version" %}}
     with:
       username: <DOCKER_ORGANIZATION_NAME>
       password: ${{ steps.docker_oidc.outputs.token }}
   ```

   The `username` value must be an organization name. Personal accounts are not supported.

   Your updated workflow YAML should look like this:

   ```yaml
   permissions:
     id-token: write

   jobs:
     login:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: OIDC connections
           id: docker_oidc
           uses: docker/oidc-action@v0
           with:
             connection_id: <YOUR_CONNECTION_ID>

>          - name: Login to Docker Hub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         - name: Sign in to Docker Hub
```

           uses: docker/login-action@{{% param "login_action_version" %}}
           with:
             username: <YOUR_ORGANIZATION_NAME>
             password: ${{ steps.docker_oidc.outputs.token }}
   ```

1. Run your GitHub Action and verify the workflow is able to log in to Docker successfully.

## Manage OIDC connections

You can view, edit, deactivate, or delete your connections from the **OIDC connections** page.

1. From **Identity & auth**, go to **OIDC connections**.
1. From the **OIDC connections** page, find the row with your target connection ID.
1. Select the action menu icon for your options.
   - **Edit** opens the **Edit OIDC connection** page where you can copy your connection ID, update rulesets, or view the **Failures** table.
   - **Deactivate** temporarily disables access to your GitHub workflow.
   - **Activate** restores access to your GitHub workflow.
   - **Delete** permanently deletes a connection.

## Deactivation and deletion

You can deactivate an OIDC connection to pause GitHub workflow access to your Docker resources without deleting the connection. While a connection is deactivated:

- It cannot issue Docker access tokens.

> - Without Docker access tokens, the `docker/oidc-action` step references will fail at the token-exchange step until you activate the connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Without Docker access tokens, the `docker/oidc-action` step references fails at the token-exchange step until you activate the connection.
```
nit: active voice

> Unlike deactivation, deleting an OIDC connection is permanent. Any workflow whose `docker/oidc-action` step still references the deleted `connection_id` will fail at the token-exchange step, so update that input with a replacement connection's id in every affected workflow before it runs again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike deactivation, deleting an OIDC connection is permanent. Any workflow whose `docker/oidc-action` step still references the deleted `connection_id` fails at the token-exchange step, so update that input with a replacement connection's id in every affected workflow before it runs again.
```

## What's next

> - To update your OIDC connection, see [Manage OIDC connections](#manage-oidc-connections)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

@akristen I think this should be removed since it's included in the prior section in this doc?

> - For reference documentation about OIDC connections rulesets and behaviors, see [OIDC connections rulesets and subject claims](/manuals/enterprise/security/oidc-connections/rulesets-claims.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [OIDC connections rulesets and subject claims](/manuals/enterprise/security/oidc-connections/rulesets-claims.md)
```
suggestion: I'd format it like the other pages for consistency

---
title: Create and manage OIDC connections
linkTitle: Create and manage connections
description: Create, update, and delete OIDC connections for your organization
keywords: oidc connections, create oidc connection, manage oidc connection, openid connect, identity provider, enterprise security, admin
tags: [admin]
weight: 10
---

{{< summary-bar feature_name="OIDC connections" >}}

Organization owners and editors can create new OIDC connections or manage existing ones from the Admin Console in Docker Home. Establishing an OIDC connection occurs in two phases. First, you create the OIDC connection in the Admin Console, then you configure your GitHub Actions workflow YAML file.

> [!NOTE]
> GitHub is the only supported trusted third party at this time.

## Connect OIDC connections to GitHub Actions

### Step 1: Create the OIDC connection

1. Sign in to [Docker Home](https://app.docker.com/), select your organization, then go to the **Admin Console**.

> 1. In **Security**, select **OIDC connections**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In **Identity & auth**, select **OIDC connections**.
```

Reviewer 3: the admin portal menu is updating and OIDC connections are now under `Identity & auth`:

<img width="346" height="667" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/14f5e7f7-4401-4093-ab9c-ab7498c5f622" />

1. Copy your OIDC connection ID.

### Step 2: Define GitHub Actions workflow

1. Add a top-level `permissions` key that requests a GitHub OIDC ID token:

   ```yaml
   permissions:
     id-token: write
   ```

1. Define a job that triggers the OIDC exchange. Update `connection_id` with the connection ID you copied from Docker:

   ```yaml
   jobs:
     login:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: OIDC connections
           id: docker_oidc
           uses: docker/oidc-action@v0
           with:
             connection_id: <YOUR_CONNECTION_ID>
   ```

1. Add a step that signs into Docker with an access token once ID token passes authentication:

   ```yaml
   - name: Login to Docker Hub
     uses: docker/login-action@{{% param "login_action_version" %}}
     with:
       username: <DOCKER_ORGANIZATION_NAME>
       password: ${{ steps.docker_oidc.outputs.token }}
   ```

   The `username` value must be an organization name. Personal accounts are not supported.

Your updated workflow YAML should look like this:

```yaml
permissions:
  id-token: write

jobs:
  login:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: OIDC connections
        id: docker_oidc

>         uses: docker/oidc-action@v0

Reviewer 4: @dotjoshrc Are we going to be releasing `v0` or `v1` to public?

Reviewer 3: bump... @dotjoshrc do we have an answer to this?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        uses: docker/oidc-action@v1
```

Reviewer 3: @akristen per call on July 13, @dotjoshrc says this will be `v1`

@gurleensethi-docker fyi

        with:
          connection_id: <YOUR_CONNECTION_ID>

      - name: Login to Docker Hub
        uses: docker/login-action@{{% param "login_action_version" %}}
        with:
          username: <YOUR_ORGANIZATION_NAME>
          password: ${{ steps.docker_oidc.outputs.token }}
```

> ### Step 3 (optional): Test

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 3: This portion of the docs is incorrect and we received feedback that it was hard to understand ([src](https://docker.slack.com/archives/C0AS69Q6A1Y/p1782864766430059?thread_ts=1782862974.036689&cid=C0AS69Q6A1Y)). Since troubleshooting is out of scope for this PR, for now let's just simplify this by removing the `### Step 3 (optional): Test` section and provide a simple sentence instead for now.

> After both phases, open the workflow run in GitHub Actions and select **Stage** to test the job.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run your GitHub Action and verify the workflow is able to log in to Docker successfully.
```

Reviewer 3: This portion of the docs is incorrect and we received feedback that it was hard to understand ([src](https://docker.slack.com/archives/C0AS69Q6A1Y/p1782864766430059?thread_ts=1782862974.036689&cid=C0AS69Q6A1Y)). Since troubleshooting is out of scope for this PR, for now let's just simplify this by removing the `### Step 3 (optional): Test` section and provide a simple sentence instead for now.

## Manage OIDC connections

> You can view, edit, deactivate, or delete your connections from the **OIDC connection** page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can view, edit, deactivate, or delete your connections from the **OIDC connections** page.
```
